apps/story-engine/README.md, before:

# Story Engine

A community-driven adventure storytelling platform that generates daily story chapters powered by AI and steered by audience engagement.

## Overview

Story Engine is an automated pipeline that runs daily to:

1. **Gather community input** — Fetches comments from the latest Instagram post, sorted by likes
2. **Filter story suggestions** — An AI agent extracts relevant story ideas from the comments
3. **Plan the next chapter** — An AI agent plans the narrative arc, incorporating community suggestions
4. **Write the chapter** — An AI agent writes prose (up to 2,100 characters for Instagram)
5. **Generate hashtags** — An AI agent creates discovery-optimized hashtags
6. **Create illustrations** — Generates consistent character art via FLUX Kontext
7. **Notify you** — Sends an email with everything ready to post

The result is a living, breathing story that the audience helps shape — like a D&D campaign where your followers are the players.

## Inspiration

- **Dungeons & Dragons** — Players suggest actions, the DM weaves them into a coherent narrative
- **Choose Your Own Adventure** — Readers influence the story's direction
- **Firewatch / The Stanley Parable** — Narrative-driven exploration with distinctive voice
- **Minecraft** — Open-ended worlds where anything can happen

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         Daily Pipeline                              │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                     │
│  Instagram ──▶ Comment    ──▶ Story     ──▶ Story    ──┬──▶ Hashtag │
│  Comments      Filter         Planner       Writer     │   Generator│
│                (Haiku)        (Sonnet+      (Sonnet)   │            │
│                               Thinking)                │            │
│                                                        └──▶ Image   │
│                                                             Prompts │
│                                                                     │
│  ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── │
│                                 │                                   │
│                                 ▼                                   │
│                           FLUX Kontext                              │
│                        (Image Generation)                           │
│                                 │                                   │
│                                 ▼                                   │
│                          Email Report                               │
│                        (Ready to Post)                              │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Tech Stack

- **Language:** Go
- **AI Models:** Claude Sonnet 4.5 (writing/planning), Claude Haiku (filtering)
- **Image Generation:** FLUX Kontext via Black Forest Labs API
- **Social Platform:** Instagram Graph API
- **Deployment:** Home server with systemd

## Project Structure

```
story-engine/
├── cmd/
│   └── storygen/
│       └── main.go              # Application entrypoint
├── internal/
│   ├── agents/                  # AI agent implementations
│   │   ├── client.go            # Anthropic API client
│   │   ├── comment_filter.go    # Agent 1: Filter comments
│   │   ├── story_planner.go     # Agent 2: Plan chapter
│   │   ├── story_writer.go      # Agent 3: Write prose
│   │   ├── hashtag_generator.go # Agent 4: Generate hashtags
│   │   └── image_prompts.go     # Agent 5: Create image prompts
│   ├── instagram/               # Instagram Graph API client
│   ├── imagegen/                # FLUX Kontext integration
│   ├── pipeline/                # Orchestration and checkpointing
│   ├── storage/                 # File-based persistence
│   ├── email/                   # Notification system
│   └── scheduler/               # Cron scheduling
├── pkg/
│   └── models/                  # Shared data structures
├── config/
│   ├── pipeline.yaml            # Main configuration
│   ├── prompts/                 # Agent system prompts
│   └── templates/               # Email templates
├── data/
│   ├── story_bible.json         # Universe rules and context
│   ├── entities/                # Character/location/object files
│   │   ├── characters/
│   │   ├── locations/
│   │   └── objects/
│   ├── archive/
│   │   └── chapters/            # Generated chapter history
│   └── runs/                    # Daily run outputs
│       └── YYYY-MM-DD/
│           ├── checkpoints/     # Pipeline recovery points
│           ├── images/          # Generated illustrations
│           └── logs/            # Execution logs
├── scripts/
│   ├── storygen.service         # systemd service file
│   └── storygen.timer           # systemd timer file
├── Makefile
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
└── README.md
```

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.21+
- Anthropic API key
- FLUX Kontext API key (via bfl.ml or Replicate)
- Instagram Business/Creator account with Graph API access

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/jamiesage/micro-saas-apps.git
cd micro-saas-apps/story-engine

# Install dependencies
make install-deps

# Copy example development configuration
cp config/dev.env.example config/dev.env
cp config/pipeline.example.yaml config/pipeline.yaml

# Edit configuration with your API keys
nano config/dev.env

# Build
make build
```

### Configuration

Create a `.env` file with your API credentials:

```bash
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
FLUX_API_KEY=...
INSTAGRAM_ACCESS_TOKEN=...
SMTP_HOST=smtp.gmail.com
SMTP_USER=you@gmail.com
SMTP_PASSWORD=your-app-password
NOTIFICATION_EMAIL=you@gmail.com
```

### Initialize Your Story

```bash
# Interactive story bible setup
make init-new-story
OR
./bin/storygen init

# This will prompt you for:
# - Universe name and genre
# - Initial premise
# - Main characters
# - Starting location
# - Tone and style preferences
```

### Running

```bash
# Single run (for testing)
run-dev # runs with dev config
OR
run-prod # runs with prod config
OR
./bin/storygen run

# Dry run (no external API calls)
run-dev-dry # runs with dev config
OR
./bin/storygen run --dry-run

# Daemon mode (runs daily at configured time)
run-prod-daemon # runs with prod config
OR
./bin/storygen daemon
```

## Pipeline Details

### Agent 1: Comment Filter

Reads Instagram comments and extracts story-relevant suggestions. Uses Claude Haiku for speed and cost efficiency. Categorizes suggestions as:

- **Adopt** — Use in the next chapter
- **Bank** — Save for future chapters
- **Reject** — Not relevant to the story

### Agent 2: Story Planner

Plans the next chapter using extended thinking mode. Considers:

- Story bible rules and constraints
- Previous 10 chapters for continuity
- Community suggestions from Agent 1
- Character arcs and relationships
- Upcoming milestones

### Agent 3: Story Writer

Writes the actual prose (max 2,100 characters for Instagram). Maintains consistent voice and tone. Automatically retries if output is too long or too short.

### Agent 4: Hashtag Generator

Creates 15-25 hashtags mixing broad reach tags (#fantasy, #storytelling) with niche discovery tags (#interactivefiction, #communitystory).

### Agent 5: Image Prompt Generator

Creates detailed prompts for FLUX Kontext including:

- Consistent style anchors
- Character reference descriptions
- Scene and mood details

## Entity Tracking

The engine maintains files for every character, location, and object introduced in the story:

```yaml
# data/entities/characters/kira_ashford.yaml
id: char_001
name: Kira Ashford
type: character
one_liner: Disgraced knight protecting the child she was ordered to kill
description: |
  Tall woman in her mid-30s with short-cropped silver hair and a scar
  running from her left temple to jaw. Wears battered steel armor with
  the insignia scratched off.
voice_note: Clipped military speech, avoids contractions
image_ref: data/entities/characters/char_001/reference.png
relationships:
  - entity: char_002
    type: protector
    status: growing trust
key_events:
  - chapter: 3
    event: Defected from the Crown Guard
  - chapter: 7
    event: Revealed her past to Marcus
```

This ensures characters behave consistently and appear the same in every illustration.

## Deployment

### systemd (Recommended)

```bash
# Copy service files
sudo cp scripts/storygen.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo cp scripts/storygen.timer /etc/systemd/system/

# Enable and start
sudo systemctl enable storygen.timer
sudo systemctl start storygen.timer

# Check status
sudo systemctl status storygen.timer
journalctl -u storygen.service
```

### Manual Cron

```bash
# Run daily at 6 PM
0 18 * * * /opt/storygen/bin/storygen run >> /var/log/storygen.log 2>&1
```

## Monitoring

The engine integrates with [Healthchecks.io](https://healthchecks.io) for dead man's switch monitoring. Configure your ping URL in `pipeline.yaml`:

```yaml
monitoring:
  healthchecks_url: https://hc-ping.com/your-uuid-here
```

You'll receive alerts if the daily run fails or doesn't execute.

## Recovery

If the pipeline fails mid-execution, it can resume from the last checkpoint:

```bash
# Resume today's failed run
./bin/storygen run --resume

# Resume a specific date's run
./bin/storygen run --resume --date 2026-01-02
```

## Cost Estimates

Running daily with 4 images per chapter:

| Service | Monthly Cost |
|---------|-------------|
| Claude API (Sonnet + Haiku) | ~$5-10 |
| FLUX Kontext (120 images) | ~$5-10 |
| **Total** | **~$10-20/month** |

## Contributing

This is a personal project, but suggestions are welcome! Open an issue to discuss ideas.

## License

MIT License — see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Acknowledgments

- [Anthropic](https://anthropic.com) for Claude
- [Black Forest Labs](https://bfl.ml) for FLUX Kontext
- The D&D community for decades of collaborative storytelling wisdom

Commit message:

docs(story-engine): adding license file

apps/story-engine/README.md, after:

# Story Engine

A community-driven adventure storytelling platform that generates daily story chapters powered by AI and steered by audience engagement.

## Overview

Story Engine is an automated pipeline that runs daily to:

1. **Gather community input** — Fetches comments from the latest Instagram post, sorted by likes
2. **Filter story suggestions** — An AI agent extracts relevant story ideas from the comments
3. **Plan the next chapter** — An AI agent plans the narrative arc, incorporating community suggestions
4. **Write the chapter** — An AI agent writes prose (up to 2,100 characters for Instagram)
5. **Generate hashtags** — An AI agent creates discovery-optimized hashtags
6. **Create illustrations** — Generates consistent character art via FLUX Kontext
7. **Notify you** — Sends an email with everything ready to post

The result is a living, breathing story that the audience helps shape — like a D&D campaign where your followers are the players.

## Inspiration

- **Dungeons & Dragons** — Players suggest actions, the DM weaves them into a coherent narrative
- **Choose Your Own Adventure** — Readers influence the story's direction
- **Firewatch / The Stanley Parable** — Narrative-driven exploration with distinctive voice
- **Minecraft** — Open-ended worlds where anything can happen

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         Daily Pipeline                              │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                     │
│  Instagram ──▶ Comment    ──▶ Story     ──▶ Story    ──┬──▶ Hashtag │
│  Comments      Filter         Planner       Writer     │   Generator│
│                (Haiku)        (Sonnet+      (Sonnet)   │            │
│                               Thinking)                │            │
│                                                        └──▶ Image   │
│                                                             Prompts │
│                                                                     │
│  ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── │
│                                 │                                   │
│                                 ▼                                   │
│                           FLUX Kontext                              │
│                        (Image Generation)                           │
│                                 │                                   │
│                                 ▼                                   │
│                          Email Report                               │
│                        (Ready to Post)                              │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Tech Stack

- **Language:** Go
- **AI Models:** Claude Sonnet 4.5 (writing/planning), Claude Haiku (filtering)
- **Image Generation:** FLUX Kontext via Black Forest Labs API
- **Social Platform:** Instagram Graph API
- **Deployment:** Home server with systemd

## Project Structure

```
story-engine/
├── cmd/
│   └── storygen/
│       └── main.go              # Application entrypoint
├── internal/
│   ├── agents/                  # AI agent implementations
│   │   ├── client.go            # Anthropic API client
│   │   ├── comment_filter.go    # Agent 1: Filter comments
│   │   ├── story_planner.go     # Agent 2: Plan chapter
│   │   ├── story_writer.go      # Agent 3: Write prose
│   │   ├── hashtag_generator.go # Agent 4: Generate hashtags
│   │   └── image_prompts.go     # Agent 5: Create image prompts
│   ├── instagram/               # Instagram Graph API client
│   ├── imagegen/                # FLUX Kontext integration
│   ├── pipeline/                # Orchestration and checkpointing
│   ├── storage/                 # File-based persistence
│   ├── email/                   # Notification system
│   └── scheduler/               # Cron scheduling
├── pkg/
│   └── models/                  # Shared data structures
├── config/
│   ├── pipeline.yaml            # Main configuration
│   ├── prompts/                 # Agent system prompts
│   └── templates/               # Email templates
├── data/
│   ├── story_bible.json         # Universe rules and context
│   ├── entities/                # Character/location/object files
│   │   ├── characters/
│   │   ├── locations/
│   │   └── objects/
│   ├── archive/
│   │   └── chapters/            # Generated chapter history
│   └── runs/                    # Daily run outputs
│       └── YYYY-MM-DD/
│           ├── checkpoints/     # Pipeline recovery points
│           ├── images/          # Generated illustrations
│           └── logs/            # Execution logs
├── scripts/
│   ├── storygen.service         # systemd service file
│   └── storygen.timer           # systemd timer file
├── Makefile
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
└── README.md
```

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.21+
- Anthropic API key
- FLUX Kontext API key (via bfl.ml or Replicate)
- Instagram Business/Creator account with Graph API access

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/jamiesage/micro-saas-apps.git
cd micro-saas-apps/story-engine

# Install dependencies
make install-deps

# Copy example development configuration
cp config/dev.env.example config/dev.env
cp config/pipeline.example.yaml config/pipeline.yaml

# Edit configuration with your API keys
nano config/dev.env

# Build
make build
```

### Configuration

Create a `.env` file with your API credentials:

```bash
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...
FLUX_API_KEY=...
INSTAGRAM_ACCESS_TOKEN=...
SMTP_HOST=smtp.gmail.com
SMTP_USER=you@gmail.com
SMTP_PASSWORD=your-app-password
NOTIFICATION_EMAIL=you@gmail.com
```

### Initialize Your Story

```bash
# Interactive story bible setup
make init-new-story
OR
./bin/storygen init

# This will prompt you for:
# - Universe name and genre
# - Initial premise
# - Main characters
# - Starting location
# - Tone and style preferences
```

### Running

```bash
# Run the story engine once (using dev or prod env)
make run-once
# or directly
./bin/storygen run

# Run a dry run (no external API calls)
make run-dry
# or directly
./bin/storygen run --dry-run

# Run as a daily daemon (scheduled run, see config/pipeline.yaml)
make run-daemon
# or directly
./bin/storygen daemon
```

_Note: You should run `make setup-dev` or `make setup-prod` before running for the first time to set up environment variables and dependencies as needed._

## Pipeline Details

### Agent 1: Comment Filter

Reads Instagram comments and extracts story-relevant suggestions. Uses Claude Haiku for speed and cost efficiency. Categorizes suggestions as:

- **Adopt** — Use in the next chapter
- **Bank** — Save for future chapters
- **Reject** — Not relevant to the story

### Agent 2: Story Planner

Plans the next chapter using extended thinking mode. Considers:

- Story bible rules and constraints
- Previous 10 chapters for continuity
- Community suggestions from Agent 1
- Character arcs and relationships
- Upcoming milestones

### Agent 3: Story Writer

Writes the actual prose (max 2,100 characters for Instagram). Maintains consistent voice and tone. Automatically retries if output is too long or too short.

### Agent 4: Hashtag Generator

Creates 15-25 hashtags mixing broad reach tags (#fantasy, #storytelling) with niche discovery tags (#interactivefiction, #communitystory).

### Agent 5: Image Prompt Generator

Creates detailed prompts for FLUX Kontext including:

- Consistent style anchors
- Character reference descriptions
- Scene and mood details

## Entity Tracking

The engine maintains files for every character, location, and object introduced in the story:

```yaml
# data/entities/characters/kira_ashford.yaml
id: char_001
name: Kira Ashford
type: character
one_liner: Disgraced knight protecting the child she was ordered to kill
description: |
  Tall woman in her mid-30s with short-cropped silver hair and a scar
  running from her left temple to jaw. Wears battered steel armor with
  the insignia scratched off.
voice_note: Clipped military speech, avoids contractions
image_ref: data/entities/characters/char_001/reference.png
relationships:
  - entity: char_002
    type: protector
    status: growing trust
key_events:
  - chapter: 3
    event: Defected from the Crown Guard
  - chapter: 7
    event: Revealed her past to Marcus
```

This ensures characters behave consistently and appear the same in every illustration.

## Deployment

### systemd (Recommended)

```bash
# Copy service files
sudo cp scripts/storygen.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo cp scripts/storygen.timer /etc/systemd/system/

# Enable and start
sudo systemctl enable storygen.timer
sudo systemctl start storygen.timer

# Check status
sudo systemctl status storygen.timer
journalctl -u storygen.service
```

### Manual Cron

```bash
# Run daily at 6 PM
0 18 * * * /opt/storygen/bin/storygen run >> /var/log/storygen.log 2>&1
```

## Monitoring

The engine integrates with [Healthchecks.io](https://healthchecks.io) for dead man's switch monitoring. Configure your ping URL in `pipeline.yaml`:

```yaml
monitoring:
  healthchecks_url: https://hc-ping.com/your-uuid-here
```

You'll receive alerts if the daily run fails or doesn't execute.

## Recovery

If the pipeline fails mid-execution, it can resume from the last checkpoint:

```bash
# Resume today's failed run
./bin/storygen run --resume

# Resume a specific date's run
./bin/storygen run --resume --date 2026-01-02
```

## Cost Estimates

Running daily with 4 images per chapter:

| Service | Monthly Cost |
|---------|-------------|
| Claude API (Sonnet + Haiku) | ~$5-10 |
| FLUX Kontext (120 images) | ~$5-10 |
| **Total** | **~$10-20/month** |

## Contributing

This is a personal project, but suggestions are welcome! Open an issue to discuss ideas.

## License

This project is licensed under the **PolyForm Noncommercial License 1.0.0**.

**You may** use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any **non-commercial** purpose, including personal projects, research, education, and use by nonprofits.

**You may not** use this software for commercial purposes without a separate license agreement.

For commercial licensing inquiries, contact Jamie Sage at jamiesage01@gmail.com.

See [LICENSE](LICENSE.md) for full terms.

## Acknowledgments

- [Anthropic](https://anthropic.com) for Claude
- [Black Forest Labs](https://bfl.ml) for FLUX Kontext
- The D&D community for decades of collaborative storytelling wisdom
